# Daily Notes

> 10 minutes of Planning can save you 100 minutes of Execution

Tags : #daily-logs, #math, #ozy

## Today's Task
---
- [ ] 

## Communication Log
---
- 

## Work Log
---
- [[Introduction to Lattices and Order]]
	- Order Set
		- Order is not a property intrinsic to a single object. It is concerns comparison between pairs of objects for eg 1 < 2, Mars is further from sun than earth.
		- It has three properties **reflexivity**, **anti-symmetry** and **transitivity**.
		- the order which is not **anti-symmetry** is called a quasi-order
- Unleashing [[MAYHEM]] on Binary Code Paper
	- **Offline symbolic executors** reason about a single execution path at a time
		- Every run of the system is independent from the others and thus results of previous runs can be immediately reused
		- Every run of the system needs to restart execution of the program from the very beginning. Conceptually, the same instructions need to be executed repeatedly for every execution trace
	- **Online symbolic execution** forks at each branch point. 
		- Previous instructions are never re-executed, but the continued forking puts a strain on memory, slowing down the execution engine as the number of branches increase
	- When symbolic execution hits a branch, it considers two possible worlds: one where the true branch target is followed and one where the false branch target is followed.
	- Each IL statement type has a corresponding symbolic execution rule
	- **MAYHEM** introduces hybrid symbolic execution to actively manage memory without constantly re-executing the same instructions.
		- Starts analysis in online mode. When the system reaches a memory cap, it switches to offline mode and does not fork any more executors.
		- The CEC concretely executes the program, hooks input sources and performs taint analysis on input variables. Every basic block that contains tainted instructions is sent to the SES for symbolic execution.

## Thoughts & Reflections
---
- 
