---
up: "[[Meeting MoC]]"
participants: "[[Murali]]"
tags:
  - "#qpsi/meeting"
  - "#type/meeting"
created-date: 2022-09-26T14:54
related: 
summary: All the Historical Sync-up Notes
---


# Notes


## Action Item

## 26-07-2022

### Agenda

- [ ] eAI Driver no response from anyone
	- [ ] setup meeting 
- [ ] Audio codec - in progress one batch remaining
- [ ] Linux Driver - no major updates
	- [ ] call graph not human consumable
- [ ] Win7 Syzkaller
	- [ ] schedule the meeting in progress
- [ ] Alex T want's me to work on WiFi driver

---

## 28-07-2021

### Agenda
- [ ] [Jira ticket](https://jira-cstm.qualcomm.com/jira/browse/QPSIRAFT-1659) which is assigned - action?
	- [ ] Check if the issue is real or not
	- [ ] How to detect it with [[Inbox/Klockwork]], why did Klockwork missed it.
	- [ ] Contact Monica CR link and understand the issue.
- [x] QPSI fuzzing Project timeline discussion
	- [x] New driver are coming, till now we only have 80 drivers.
- [X] Klockwork
- [X] What to fill in [[Inbox/Annual Review]] form
	- Yes, but it won't matter much.
- [X] Burn-out, late night calls
- [x] Grok Access
	- [x] Open Grok Only for Linux
	- [x] For QDI Code Grok (use go/grok)
- [X] What do I have to write in monthly report.
	- Not this month
	- Nilo and you should have a nice update on QDI Fuzzing Project

### Notes and Decisions

- Don't join late calls. Say that its not convenient for me.
- Put out of office on your calendar in your outlook. use team as **qpsi.team**
- New project that you will put you in new project.

### [[Action Items]]

---

## 12-08-2021

### Agenda

- [ ] Too much time in QDI Fuzzing project no timed for Klockwork
- [ ] Holiday on Aug 19-20
- [ ] Klockwork Issue
	- [ ] to learn how to file false positive cases.

### Notes and Decisions

- in monthly meeting you don't need to be there if you don't need to presenting.
- Keep note of your contribution
- Feedback from different team is more valuable.
	- Can Acar (spells as John ajar) - General Security Guy
	- Grant Hernandez - Fuzzing
	- Aleksandr Tarasikov - Fuzzing
	- Jacopo Corbetta - Fuzzing
- Shilpa Sheveran and Adinayaran Grande for QDI fuzzing project scaling
- Jyotsna Krishnaswamy <jyotsnak@qti.qualcomm.com> - DSP security overview

### Action Items

- looking into [[clicer]] code

---

## 25-08-2021 

### Agenda

- [x] Conferences Which I have selected, may not travel now but in the future.
- [x] Monthly report? when will I start giving them. What should I be writing then.
- [x] Can I delivery NPRE training. I got message from a Sec-Conf for that.
	-  yes you can but get organization approval.
- [x] LLVM IR pass project
- [x] What kind project we usually get? Prdfdoduct focused, problem focused?
- [x] Interview process - what interviews whom?
- [x] Will I be continuing [[clicer]] project?
	- TBD
- [x] someone contacted me for Klockwork issue
	-  contact Rizwan

### Notes and Decisions

- ASAN support on Hexagon - Murali and Alex
- Next month QDI driver fuzzing will go  to Adinayarth's team.
- is the bug you get is old bug or new? if the bug is older then certain age it VD's issue.
- Next year project you own
	- QDI Driver
	- Klockwork DR training for Asia
	- Reverse project (AFL telemetry)
		- Check fuzzing campaign by all fuzzing binary
		- LLVM coverage collection for huge data-set
			- how do we represent coverage data in editor/html

### Action Items

- Try Syzkaller like https://github.com/SunHao-0/healer
- Before sleep see all the meeting next day
- Bare-metal reversing talk in QPSI organization
- Talk to ken about Hexagon architecture
	-  Talk : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3EpnTYBOXCI&ab_channel=KVMForum

---

## 08-09-2021

### Agenda
- [x] US visa for Product Security Summit
	- lets see later
- [x] Goal 2022
	- Ozymandias - run it on modem mobs
		- NR 5g mob 
		- MPSS
	- Klockwork issues SP
- [x] QDI Fuzzing
	-  have meeting with Nilo
- [x] Rizwan about Klockwork

### Notes and Decisions

- once you file bug talk to developer and help them fix
- working on [[Inbox/Klockwork]] gives you visibility
- Goal 2022
	- Ozymandias - run it on modem mobs
		- NR 5g mob 
		- MPSS
	-  Klockwork issues SP

### Action Items

## 22-09-2021

### Agenda
- [x] Rizwan Klockwork
	- murali will setup a meeting
- [x] Driver's 2nd wave
	- till you complete eAI Driver you should be getting the date for next drivers
- [x] eAI Driver
	- create fuzzer for the driver and hand it over to the Hanu's team till 15 Oct.

### Notes and Decisions

- eAI is not worth working on if it has architectural flaws
- Every week interact with someone and make friends with someone 2 level above you like Senior Staff.
- After finishing each project do 1 hour presentation.
- As a DR Trainer you solve around 100 issue per year. 
- 500 issue per year for efficacy testing  of [[Inbox/Klockwork]]
- How to learn kw
	- start with summary for defect detection

### Action Items

- `make fuzz` command should
	- should apply patch
- make presentation of eAI driver fuzzing
- Klockwork Issues


## 06-10-2021

### Agenda

- [x] CyberWeek HITB
	- no business travel due to covid


### Notes and Decisions

- Two projects
	- Ozy tuning

### Action Items

-

## 21-10-2021

### Agenda

- [x] AR21 feedback
	- 6 - 10 outside staff people telling you can be promoted
	- follow up with people you have worked with by telling how things are going.
	- give QDI driver to team 
	- reflect each week what new relation you have made and new contribution you have done 
	- 2 3 - 1 hour presentation
		- firmware revers engineering
		- eAI drivers
			- take ownership to fix the bugs
			- i want to raise CR how to do it.
			- have talk to developer and how to fix it. Once you fix it i have help you verify it.
- [x] Data flow analysis before slice
	- this is already done by Klockwork
	- phasar.org in not needed if [[Inbox/Klockwork]] works
- [x] Inter's expectation
- [x] CR impact on AR
	- if you have too many CR you can talk about it but not too much of an issue.
- [x] Klockwork architecture

### Notes and Decisions
- [ ] Modem MPSS binary you need to do [[ozy]] analysis

### Action Items
- [ ] meet with Alex T about GW Asan

---

## 01-12-2021

### Agenda
- [ ] Intern is not responding
- [ ] MPSS Binary analysis Update
- [ ] LLVM project with Alex T

### Notes and Decisions
- Hexagon support in [[angr]]
- 

### Action Items
- 
## 29-12-2021

### Agenda

- [ ] 

### Notes and Decisions

- [ ] 

### Action Items

- For the [[Hardware ASAN Project]] try to replicate the bugs by using some method.
	- One method can be to replicate the fuzzing setup and tweaking something to find those bug and report that.

---

## 25-03-2022

### Agenda

- [ ] US Visa application
- [x] Year Goal in Workday
- [x] mm audio CR's
	- [ ] set meeting with aveen Monday after 7 am PST
- [x] EVS Audio CR's Ravi wants to remove security type and doesn't want to propagate changes to old version.
- [ ] Annual review for this year
	- [ ] Ravi Ojhs worked on EVS on request of Apple provide feedback.
	- [ ] Xiaoming
	- [ ] Gaurang Parikh
- [ ] Linux Kernel Exploitation workshop
	- [ ] Lingtong Shen
	- [ ] Jacopo Corbetta


### Notes and Decisions

- 

### Action Items

- 

