---
up: "[[Welcome Home]]"
created-date: 2025-11-03
tags: "#type/note/weekly"
score: 4
summary: Continue my research on Linux kernel VR motivated from CTF challenge
---

## Task

> [!NOTE] 
> ```tasks
> not done
> limit 50
> sort by due
> hide tags
> short mode
> (tag include #qpsi) OR ( tag include #kw)
> ```


### Logs

> Just right one line description about what all things have on one each day

- **Monday**
- **Tuesday**
	- Page Corruption
		- It is also called [PageJack](https://i.blackhat.com/BH-US-24/Presentations/US24-Qian-PageJack-A-Powerful-Exploit-Technique-With-Page-Level-UAF-Thursday.pdf)
- **Wednesday**
	- Because of *CONFIG_SLUB_DEBUG_ON* cpu_partials config is set to zero that we as problem so far
	- SLUB Allocator [[Linux Attack Library]]
		- the allocator has one page attack to per cpu for its active allocation
		- it has pool of pages which are not associated with any CPU. But its a linked-list of page, but the either all into these category
			- the page is fully allocated
			- the page has some allocated objects some free space
			- the page is fully free. The page can be pushed out of partials list if crosses the limit of number of partial a slab can hold.
		- these page can get reallocated the any of the CPU if its allocation is full or 
- **Thursday**
	- Light reading on slub allocator
- **Friday**
	- QGenie demo Day
- **Saturday**
	- Travelling back to Home Meta
- **Sunday**
	- Day out in Ahemadabad

### Notes
> Anything you discovered or you want to remember it for later should be put in this section.
- [Eye Health Podcat](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M9m60ICnT3o)
- [ ] #log/read [[Reading MoC]]
	- I found reading to be very rejuvenating because it helps to you catch a abstract thought which is running in your mind and give it a word and capture it. Once you capture it you can play around it and also invite other to share those same emotion around that thought.
	- You feel someone else also went through a similar experience hence cultivating a sense of share consciousness.
	- Sometime it is also about capturing a unique experience and share it with the world such the other people can resonate with it.
- [ ] #log/seedbox 
	- Frequently allocating and releasing memory to system can degrade their performance this idea has been implemented in different area like malloc in user-space, kernel kmalloc and in gang of four pattern book.

---