---
up: "[[Welcome Home]]"
created-date: 2025-11-24
tags: "#type/note/weekly"
score: 6
summary: WFH
---

## Task

> [!NOTE] 
> ```tasks
> not done
> limit 50
> sort by due
> hide tags
> short mode
> (tag include #qpsi) OR ( tag include #kw)
> ```


### Logs

> Just right one line description about what all things have on one each day

- **Monday**
- **Tuesday**
	- [x] #task #qpsi come up with OOB Fuzzing pipeline ✅ 2026-02-27
- **Wednesday**
	- Meeting with Murali and the whole team.
	- Resignation news to Murali. He sounded very accommodating.
- **Thursday**
- **Friday**
- **Saturday**
- **Sunday**


### Notes
> Anything you discovered or you want to remember it for later should be put in this section.
- [ ] #log/seedbox - Linux kernel Fuzzing
	- Executing the unit-test cases and collecting trace data for corpus enrichment.
	- Using [[ftrace]] API's to collect corpus data instead of user-space ioctl data.
	- In-order to improve coverage matrix we can reduce the number of points were the kcov instrumentation is injected. For example we can put instrumentation 
		1. only on function prologue. 
		2. Or we can identify points which are high value for memory corruption like loops and memory operation basic blocks and place on that place.
		3. Put instrumentation only on L2 and L3 function and we can infer that L1 will always be there to catch it.
	- Syz-describe paper has different analysis which can be used to find all the entry-point of the 
	- [Towards More Accurate Static Analysis for Taint-Style Bug Detection in Linux Kernel](https://www.cs.ucr.edu/%7Ezhiyunq/pub/ase25_buglens.pdf)
		- LLM for Linux kernel security
- [[Index Investing]] - screener tool from NSE https://www.indiapassivefunds.com/
- Book Recommendation :
	- Computer Systems: A Programmer's Perspective
	- Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs
	- Designing Data-Intensive Applications: The Big Ideas Behind Reliable, Scalable, and Maintainable Systems

---