---
up: "[[Welcome Home]]"
created-date: 2026-04-05
tags: "#type/note/weekly"
score: 4
summary: WoS Agentic worflow and fuzzing farm
---

## Task

> [!NOTE] 
> ```tasks
> not done
> limit 50
> sort by due
> hide tags
> short mode
> (tag include #qpsi) OR ( tag include #kw)
> ```


### Logs

> Just right one line description about what all things have on one each day

- **Monday**
- **Tuesday**
	- Fuzzing Farm issues
		- There is problem with connect more than two devices to one machine it leads to USB driver crash. Officially this is an issue. This problem interferes with our ability to collect and analyze crashes and recover the device in fuzzable state.
		- Lets say if we somehow are able to fix the previous issue we will have issue with storage crash dump which can be huge, something like 16 gb for [[Hawi]].
- **Wednesday**
	- Fair phone talks  
		- salary 90,000 EURO, paid holidays. 
		- Transport cost.
	- System test teams - they manage 700 devices.
- **Thursday**
	- Work alignment with team
- **Friday**
	- WoS Agentic Workflow
- **Saturday**
	- Shaman sycall decoding
- **Sunday**
	- Shaman sycall decoding


### Notes
> Anything you discovered or you want to remember it for later should be put in this section.
- Windows Compute Fuzzing Farm
	- Current State
		- 3 Devices - San Diego
		- Windows security team
		- CRM build are not working on r1/v1
		- No R2 in India.
	- New work
		- [[WoS]] Security Team are not opening CR's.
			- 27 Bugs exist but not reported. 
			- QPSI should not do it.
		- Harness which are not converted to C Harnesses.
			- Translate from gdb to C
			- with coverage guided
		- Web Interface improvement
		- Connect QOT-Fuzz to AIRCA
- WoS Agentic Workflow
	- Step 1 - Attack surface: Create the attack surface report for 'xyz driver', you can read the PEP json file.
	- Step 2 - Harness generation: create the harness for 'xyz driver'.
	- Debug - use this if something is not working properly
		- claudeception - fix the workflow for 
		- /architect improve the harness engineer to make it use the cov/pull_cov.py after the execution of the fuzzer on device, then ask it to read the tagged source code to figure out the missing/uncovered blocks and how to improve the harness to reach those blocks.

---